# Introduction

Hey! First of all thank you for reading this and congratulations to your project at IGH. In this tutorial I want to ….

## Why are we doing this?

tl;dr:

- poverty is bad, we want to fight against it, so we have to track it (to fight against it)
- surveys are expensive and time consuming but collects the real situation of the people
- surveys doesn’t cover the whole country, so we have gaps
- we can learn a model based on the survey and some remote sensing features to predict poverty (also for the gaps)
- and we did even through time

As you know, poverty is a huge problem against which we fighting currently. It is so huge, that the UN declared at it one of the SGD - things the UN want to solve or fight against until 2030 like hunger and so on. And number one of those SGD’s is poverty. But why poverty? Poverty is the main reason for …. If you want learn more about it, there are lot of interesting paper, videos and podcasts out there. Here a little collection:

Alright, we know poverty is terrible, but to fight against it, we have to track it. We need to know which regions of the globe are impoverished to start political actions to fight against it. So the next question should arise: How can we track poverty? By asking the people in all countries and regions around the globe. Sounds large, expensive, time-consuming and inefficient? Yes, it is, but this is how it is done, and even if our work would yield perfect results, we need those surveys to have an accurate ground truth on which we can work and which reflects the daily reality of the people. So if we have those surveys, why are we doing this here? First, the surveys only collect data from clusters in the target country. It would be too expensive to ask every citizen in a country. Instead, we ask enough people in enough clusters to have good statistics and create models close enough to reality. So the classical surveys leave out regions in the country. So we don’t know the situation there and now imagine that you are an NGO, a politician who wants to start a project in one of this non tracked regions to fight against poverty. Yeah, bad, you don’t know what the situation is and also, you don’t know what political actions caused which development in the past. Here we come into the game; we can use the surveys to teach a model to predict poverty by giving remote inputs, such as satellite and nighttime images. By training our model on surveys, we can take the non-tracked region and get features for this region, which are independent of the surveys and predict the poverty in this region. Since the cluster and household are collected such as they can reflect the situation in the whole country, we can assume that our models are good enough to generalize on the data and predict a “useful” and realistic enough value. Don’t be overwhelmed; we will go step by step into the details. This is to get the big picture and summary, which you can tell your parents or in a bar. And yes, you are doing something cool and valuable.

### Ground truth

The ground truth shows us the region's real situation and is captured by surveys. Imagine someone is going from door to door and asking all the people the same questions. There are different surveys which are done periodically. We will focus on the two aims to measure poverty - the Demographic and Health Surveys (DHM) and Living Standard Measurement Survey (LSMS). Here, in short what the surveys aim:

- DHS:
- LSMS:

For more information please, look [here](https://dhsprogram.com/pubs/pdf/DHSG1/Guide_to_DHS_Statistics_29Oct2012_DHSG1.pdf) von DHS and [here](https://www.worldbank.org/en/programs/lsms) for the LSMS.